resources.md, before:

# Resources

## YouTube
- [Scalability lecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-W9F__D3oY4) 
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Good introduction of how to build scalable web apps. It could stand to be a bit more general, and it's a little long and wordy at times, but at least it's walking you through a practical example.
- [Modern SQL lecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n9S4Ibh5O0E) 
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Very good intro to all the important parts of SQL. After this, you want to do whatever you can to get familiar with the language. Perhaps solve challenges on HackerRank (I mainly learned SQL during an internship as a data engineer).
- [Why writing your own search engine is hard](https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm)
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ More entertainment than anything, but I found the window into the complexity of building a hyper-scale search engine insightful.
- [7 Database Paradigms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W2Z7fbCLSTw)
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Short informative video. Pretty much superseded by DDIA, but the knowledge:time invested ratio is high. Good way to learn the lay of the land WRT database types.

## Books
- [Kleppmann, Martin]. *Designing Data-Intensive Applications*. O'Reilly Media, 2017.
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Though I'm only part way through it, this book is a classic, and it teaches you a ton about building large scale data systems. This means it covers scalability.
- [Beyer, Betsy], et al., editors. *Site Reliability Engineering: How Google Runs Production Systems*. O'Reilly Media, Inc., 2017.
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Did you know that SRE is a subset of DevOps? Or how Borg, Google's cluster operating system works? This book is straightforwardly written and packed with knowledge of how things are done at Google, so that you can apply it to your own company.
    - __Link:__ https://sre.google/sre-book/table-of-contents/ 

## GitHub
- [system-design-primer](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer)
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Really good jumping off point, because it has info on pretty much everything, I just wish it was slightly more organized / approachable.

Commit message:

add borg and edit sections

resources.md, after:

# Resources

## YouTube
- [Scalability lecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-W9F__D3oY4) 
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Good introduction of how to build scalable web apps. It could stand to be a bit more general, and it's a little long and wordy at times, but at least it's walking you through a practical example.
- [Modern SQL lecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n9S4Ibh5O0E) 
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Very good intro to all the important parts of SQL. After this, you want to do whatever you can to get familiar with the language. Perhaps solve challenges on HackerRank (I mainly learned SQL during an internship as a data engineer).
- [7 Database Paradigms](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W2Z7fbCLSTw)
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Short informative video. Pretty much superseded by DDIA, but the knowledge:time invested ratio is high. Good way to learn the lay of the land WRT database types.

## Books
- [Kleppmann, Martin]. *Designing Data-Intensive Applications*. O'Reilly Media, 2017.
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Though I'm only part way through it, this book is a classic, and it teaches you a ton about building large scale data systems. This means it covers scalability.
- [Beyer, Betsy], et al., editors. *Site Reliability Engineering: How Google Runs Production Systems*. O'Reilly Media, Inc., 2017.
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Did you know that SRE is a subset of DevOps? Or how Borg, Google's cluster operating system works? This book is straightforwardly written and packed with knowledge of how things are done at Google, so that you can apply it to your own company.
    - __Link:__ https://sre.google/sre-book/table-of-contents/ 

## GitHub
- [system-design-primer](https://github.com/donnemartin/system-design-primer)
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ Really good jumping off point, because it has info on pretty much everything, I just wish it was slightly more organized / approachable.

## Papers
- [Large-scale cluster management at Google with Borg](https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en//pubs/archive/43438.pdf)
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ If you want to learn the topics that interviews cover, this probably won't help you. It is however quite interesting if you like large-scale distributed systems.

## Blogs
- [Why writing your own search engine is hard](https://queue.acm.org/detail.cfm)
    - __Rating:__ ⭐⭐
    - __Review:__ More entertainment than anything, but I found the window into the complexity of building a hyper-scale search engine insightful.
